This is the README file for the paralist package. Please read the
license information at the end of this file.


PURPOSE

This style file provides some new list environments. Itemized and enumerated 
lists can be typesetted within paragraphs, as paragraphs and in a compact
version. Most environments have optional arguments to format the labels.
Additionally, the LaTeX environments itemize and enumerate can be 
extended to use a similar optional argument.


INSTALLATION

To install the paralist package you need:
  paralist.ins
  paralist.dtx
  docstrip.tex (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)
               (I think you need at least version 2.4)

Run LaTeX on the file paralist.ins to strip the comments from paralist.dtx and
produce the style file paralist.sty. Put the file paralist.sty somewhere LaTeX
can find it. Read the documentation of your LaTeX system to find out where this
might be.

If you're new to this, see
http://www.tex.ac.uk/cgi-bin/texfaq2html?label=instpackages for more
information on installing packages.


DOCUMENTATION

To produce the documentation you also need:
  ltxdoc.cls (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)
  doc.sty    (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)

If you want the standard documentation, run LaTeX on paralist.dtx.
If you want a more detailed documentation with the code and an index,
use paralist.drv and modify it according to the following notes.

To get documentation of the code, put a percent sign in front of the
\OnlyDescription.

If you additionally want to know about the change history, uncomment the
indicated lines in paralist.drv and use the following commands:
    latex paralist.drv
    makeindex -s gglo.ist -o paralist.gls paralist.glo
    latex paralist.drv
Then the change history should appear at the end of the documentation.
Note that this list is only complete if you include the code (see above).

If you want to have an index of all the new and redefined macros and
environments, uncomment the indicated lines and use the following
commands:
    latex paralist.drv
    makeindex -s gind.ist paralist.idx
    latex paralist.drv


COPYING AND MODIFICATION

Copyright 1998-2017 Bernd Schandl
Copyright 2013 Julian Gilbey (modifications in v2.4)

The paralist package consists of the following files:

  README        Instructions on installation and documentation.
  paralist.ins  The installation driver.
  paralist.dtx  The documentation and the documented source code.

This package can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms
of the LaTeX Project Public License distributed from CTAN
archives in the directory macros/latex/base/lppl.txt; either
version 1 of the license, or (at your option) any later version.

You might like to keep paralist.ins and paralist.dtx somewhere safe as 
a backup, or in case you want to pass the paralist package on to someone 
else.


HELP

Bernd Schandl
email schandl@gmx.com

