This is the README file relative to package imakeidx version 1.3e
dated 15 October 2016.

Copyright 2010-2016 by Enrico Gregorio

The bundle contains the files:

README              this file
imakeidx.dtx        the documented source TeX file
imakeidx.pdf        the documentation extracted from the dtx
manifest.txt        legalese information.

WARNING: the derived files:

imakeidx.sty        the package itself
imakeidx.pdf        the documentation file in PDF format

are SIMULTANEOUSLY produced while running pdflatex on imakeidx.dtx.

The bundle  is distributed  under the LPPL license  version 1.3c or
any later version.

The bundle has the status of author maintained.

The various files should be moved to the TDS folders as such:
in source/latex/imakeidx/  file: imakeidx.dtx
in doc/latex/imakeidx/     files: README, manifest.txt, imakeidx.pdf
in tex/latex/imakeidx/    file: imakeidx.sty

The main  purpose of this bundle  is to exploit  the possibility of
running  an  index  formatting   program  from  within  a  document
typesetting task (tested with the engines pdftex, xetex, and luatex
in their  incarnation  set up to process  the LaTeX  markup) at the
\printindex  level, so that one  or more indices  can be typeset in
such a way that they are always synchronous  with the document they
belong to.

With the TeXlive 2010 release  the makeindex  program can be safely
run within a TeX run;  with previous distributions the shell escape
feature  had to be  explicitly  enabled.   With the 2010  and later
distributions the makeindex program is directly accessible.  If the
xindy program  is used  to sort index entries  and format the index
files, it is still necessary to use the full shell escape option.

This  bundle  is compatible  with  most  existing  classes;    some
conflicts  with other  packages  have been  reported  and have been
resolved,  or  at  least  advice is given  so as  to overcome  such
conflicts.

This version 1.3e is a maintenance release for solving an issue
with the CTAN upload.

Enrico Gregorio       enrico dot gregorio at univr.it
